# Android-Assignments-CL-II-Lab

This repository contains Android application projects required to be completed as laboratory assignments in Computer Laboratory II of the B.E. course semester 7 at Cummins College of Engineering for Women.<br /><br />
These assignments have been performed on Android Studio (beta version 0.8.14)<br /><br />
The following two projects were used for basic demonstration of Android application development.<br /><br />
1. Hello World : A simple Android application that displays "Hello World!" on the mobile screen.<br /><br />
2. Form and Database : A two screen Android application used to accept data from user in a form, store the same on a SQLite database and display each data set in a listview. This project demonstrates the concepts of Activities, Intents, basic Android UI elements, data storage, Toasts and Adapters.<br /><br />
One of the assignments to be performed in the lab for elective subject Pervasive Computing is the Pizza Shop application. The application is made up of 3 screens. First screen displays a list of pizza options to the user. Once the user selects a pizza option from the list, the next screen asks the user to enter details like quantity of pizza, name, address and pin code. Once these details are received, the application calculates the total amount for the order placed, connects to a cloud database of pizza shops and finds the nearest shop to the user according to pin code and displays an order confirmation message to the user. This message must convey the total amount and the name of the shop from where delivery is expected to the user.<br /><br />
Firstly demonstrated is the 3 screen application without the cloud database connectivity in the project named 'PizzaShop'.<br /><br />
The final application must have connectivity.<br /><br />
Another assignment for the lab is a Context Management application under the subject Smart Systems Design and Applications. This application is used to store data about the user and send out only relevant data as per the context of the use case. For example, the user stores his name, email, phone number, height, gender, age, qualification, area of specialization and experience. For company context, the name, email, number, qualification, area of specialization and experience fields are extracted while for matrimony context, the name, number, height, gender, age and qualification fields are extracted, thus reducing the pain of having to fill in seperate forms for every other context. The project is named 'Context' and it uses files in internal phone storage to store the user's data.<br /><br />
